Welcome to our program.
Here are just a few of the things we can look forward to.
Can the lure of fame draw us away from Jehovah?
How does this brother feel about the decisions he made as a young person?
What does his story teach us about how to use our God-given abilities and talents?
Throughout the organization, young brothers and sisters are reaching out to do more in Jehovah's service.
Their spirituality and youthful energy are helping to advance the kingdom work.
But how is showing respect for experienced brothers an important part of any theocratic assignment?
We'll also hear from young brothers and sisters from around the world.
Why is their relationship with Jehovah so important to them?
What do they do to build and maintain their spirituality?
And we'll consider even more ways Christian youths are setting a beautiful example for our worldwide brotherhood.
This is JW Broadcasting for December 2016.
During the past five years, over 1.3 million faithful ones have symbolized their dedication to Jehovah by water baptism.
That's an average of over 700 each day.
And among those courageously taking their stand for true worship are thousands of children, teenagers and young adults.
Young brothers and sisters, we know it is not always easy to serve Jehovah and live up to your dedication.
Like older ones, you need to be encouraged and strengthened spiritually.
With that in mind, our theme this month is young ones.
Become an example to the faithful ones.
It is based on the inspiring true life story of a young Christian named Timothy.
Before we discuss Timothy's example, did you know that the Bible specifically foretold that many young people would take sides with Jehovah and our time?
Let's look at this at Psalm 1103.
And as we read it together, note how young ones are having a share in fulfilling this prophecy.
Notice the first part of verse 3, David saying,
Your people will offer themselves willingly on the day of your military force.
According to this prophecy, Jesus, the Messianic King, would have a large army of willing supporters.
Since 1914, millions have carefully investigated the facts and chosen to side with Jehovah God and Jesus Christ.
But where do young ones come into this picture?
The rest of the verse continues.
In splendid holiness, from the womb of the dawn, you have your company of young men just like do drops.
Here, the prophecy refers to a company or group of young ones.
They also would study the evidence and support God's kingdom.
How many young people did Jehovah foresee supporting true worship?
We get an idea by the comparison made to do drops.
Have you ever gone outside early in the morning and noticed a light sparkling coating of water on the ground?
That may have been due.
Jehovah designed our atmosphere so that under certain conditions,
when the temperature cools during the night, a blanket of moisture forms on the ground.
That coating is made up of a multitude of little drops.
Young ones, what does do have to do with you?
In the Bible, do is connected with blessing and abundance.
Do drops are also refreshing, life-sustaining, and numerous.
Now, remember in Psalm 1103, Jehovah was looking ahead to our time and what did he see?
The September 15, 2002 watched our on page 8 explained it this way.
Just like refreshing do drops, many young men and women cheerfully serve God and assist their fellow worshipers.
Today, there are so many mature, bright, happy young ones in the Christian congregation
that they are like countless do drops that sparkle in the morning sun.
You faithful children, teenagers, and young adults who have dedicated your life to Jehovah
or who are working toward that goal are living proof that Jehovah's confidence in young people was never misplaced.
He cherishes you very much and so do we.
Of course, knowing that Jehovah has confidence in us can be very encouraging.
But what if doubts or negative thoughts tend to bring us down?
On occasion, a young witness might wonder,
does anyone other than Jehovah notice me?
Does my example really matter to others to address these questions?
Let's now consider Timothy's example.
Open your Bible, please, to our theme text at 1 Timothy, chapter 4 and verse 12.
When you find it, you might want to bookmark the verse because we want to first understand the setting.
How old was Timothy at this time?
Often, when thinking of Timothy, I picture a teenager or a young man in his early 20s.
And when he first started traveling with Paul, he was about that age.
But several years passed before Paul wrote letters to Timothy.
So by the time first Timothy was written, Timothy was likely in his early 30s.
Now, what do you think?
Was Timothy young or old?
Some of you younger ones may be thinking to yourselves,
if he was over 30, then he was old.
But remember, a much older man like Paul would say that Timothy was quite young.
In fact, notice the expression he uses when writing to Timothy.
First Timothy, chapter 4 and verse 12, Paul says,
Never let anyone look down on your youth.
Instead, become an example to the faithful ones.
In speaking, in conduct, in love, in faith, in chasteness.
Paul called Timothy a youth and urged him to be a good example.
While Timothy may have been in his early 30s at this time,
remember that he was taught about Jehovah from the time he was a baby
and he did well in the truth as a young person.
In fact, when he was still a teenager or in his early 20s,
the elders recommended him to serve as a missionary with Paul.
So in effect, Paul here is urging Timothy to continue to be a good example for others.
What else do we know about Timothy?
He was not proud or haughty.
He likely did not view himself as some amazing example.
I'm sure he never dreamed that one day Christians all over the world
would study his life in detail so as to imitate his faith.
Timothy was modest and this despite his privileges.
Paul's words may indicate that Timothy was somewhat shy.
Like many of us, he may have battled with feelings of self-doubt on occasion.
Based on this information, let's do something interesting now.
Let's use our imagination to visualize Timothy
an elder in his early 30s coming to give a scriptural talk in the congregation.
Got the picture?
In your mind, please look at Timothy and then look at the audience.
Who do we see?
Many in attendance are old enough to be Timothy's parents or grandparents.
How do you think Timothy felt?
Super confident?
Are you visualizing him proudly walking into the meeting place, saying,
I sure wish my friends back in Listera could see me now.
Look at the crowds that come to hear me speak.
No, that's not the Timothy we know.
It's much more likely that Timothy, like most of us,
rehearsed his presentation over and over again.
He probably prayed constantly and he probably still got nervous like all of us.
And remember, Timothy did not have the benefit of theocratic schools like we do today.
In summary, what can we say about Timothy?
Like so many of you, he was an example of faith and obedience.
He was exceptional in displaying Christian qualities such as modesty and humility.
But Timothy was a person with normal human feelings like all of us.
Though he had a rich, happy life in Jehovah's service,
life in the old world brought real tests and challenges.
Timothy also dealt with frequent cases of sickness
and he was imprisoned for a time.
Some of you in various countries can relate to those bitter experiences.
But Timothy endured.
Was he some super Christian with super powers?
No, but he did prove to be a super example.
How does all of this help you?
Christian youths who have taken the commendable step to dedicate your lives to Jehovah.
We just read how Paul told Timothy to let no one look down on his youth.
A few of you may be thinking,
I wish someone would tell my parents or my elders not to look down on me.
They still treat me like a little kid.
If that's the case, we feel for you.
No progressive young one wants to be treated as if he were a child.
But let's look again at 1 Timothy chapter 4 and verse 12.
Is the Apostle Paul speaking to the congregation,
to parents or to the elders?
Never let anyone look down on your youth.
Instead, become an example to the faithful ones in speaking,
in conduct, in love, in faith, in chasteness.
It's clear, isn't it?
Paul said your youth.
He was speaking only to Timothy.
Young ones, my extension, what is Jehovah saying to each of you?
It's this.
To gain and maintain the respect of faithful ones,
you have to work at proving yourself as a Christian.
The key is not wanting or hoping that others will respect you.
Rather, it's earning such respect by setting a good example in all areas of life.
If you do that, then no one will have any legitimate reason to look down on your youth.
Doesn't it make sense that we gain respect by earning it?
We are confident that you young ones are trying hard to live by Christian principles
at school and in the neighborhood.
But in verse 12, did you notice who Timothy was to be an example to?
To the faithful ones.
Are you an example to Christians, both younger and older,
in your congregation and in your circuit?
If you work on Kingdom Hall construction projects or a Bethel,
are you an example to your fellow workers?
Well, what are some specific ways?
You can become an example to all of these faithful ones.
In our theme text, the Timothy was first directed to become an example in speaking.
On this topic, I'll never forget an illustration used in the young people ask article
from the January 2012 awake.
Equated a young man, James, who said,
once you squeeze toothpaste out, you can't put it back in the tube.
The same is true with our words.
Once we say something hurtful, we can't take it back.
God's word agrees with James.
Note what it says at Ephesians chapter 4 and verse 29.
It tells us,
let a rotten word not come out of your mouth,
but only what is good for building up as the need may be
to impart what is beneficial to the hearer.
For some years now, those getting baptized have been encouraged
to complete a study of the book, keep yourselves in God's love.
Chapter 12 is entitled,
speak what is good for building up.
On page 140, there is a box with five questions
that can help us evaluate our speech, for example.
When was the last time I offered someone specific commendation?
Do I express my respect for others by saying,
please, and thank you?
In conversation, do I speak mainly about myself
or am I also interested in the thoughts and feelings of others?
Young ones, over the next few days,
why not review that box on page 140?
Look up the scriptures and think about what Jehovah is saying.
Then apply what you learn to your speech.
Doing this will draw you closer to Jehovah
and help you to become an even better example
to the faithful ones.
The second area mentioned in our theme text
is becoming an example in conduct.
Of course, upbuilding speech would be empty
or hypocritical if our conduct was questionable.
Think again about Timothy.
It wasn't enough for him to give comments
and talks at the meetings or preach from door to door.
Later, in the same letter, Paul reminded Timothy
that he needed to treat older men and women as fathers
and mothers, younger men and women were to be treated
as brothers and sisters.
Second Peter, chapter three and verse 11,
provides a similar urge and reminder about our conduct.
Let's read that together.
Again, that's second Peter, chapter three and verse 11.
There it tells us,
since all these things are to be dissolved in this way,
consider what sort of people you ought to be
in holy acts of conduct.
Let's think about that.
For a person's conduct to be holy from Jehovah's perspective,
he or she must be morally clean.
While physical cleanness is on the outside,
moral cleanness is on the inside in our thoughts and desires.
Is being morally clean really important?
Think about it this way.
When eating a meal, would you be content to eat from a bowl
that had been washed only on the outside?
Of course not.
We want to eat from clean dishes,
dishes that are thoroughly clean inside and out.
So when we wash dishes, we wash the outside
and the inside.
Similarly, Jehovah expects his servants
to be clean through and through.
And because Jehovah,
the perfect reader of hearts will soon dissolve,
yes, eliminate this dirty system of things,
it's urgent that we do so.
This means that we have to work very hard
so that nothing unclean enters our mind.
That means firmly rejecting so-called fun
and exciting entertainment,
which features sex, violence or spiritism.
At 1 Corinthians 14 and verse 20,
the Bible tells us that we should become
like young children as to badness.
No matter our age, we don't need
and we don't want any experience
with the wickedness of this world.
Rather, we keep the inside of the dish
our mind and heart clean at all times.
And when we do so,
our exemplary conduct
pleases Jehovah and its strengthens
our faithful brothers and sisters.
Really, it's the only way to respect ourselves
and to gain the respect of others.
Our theme text at 1 Timothy chapter 4 and verse 12
goes on to mention other areas
where we can make steady progress
in becoming an example,
such as in love,
in faith and in chasteness.
During your personal study,
that is your personal time
with your best friend Jehovah,
why not examine these areas in more detail?
The treasures you gain from such a study project
can last a lifetime
and everlasting lifetime.
So what have we learned?
In fulfillment of Bible prophecy,
a large company of young people
from around the world
are taking a stand with Jehovah and Jesus.
That includes all of you.
Like do drops,
you're not only abundant in number,
but you sparkle in our congregations.
Your presence is very refreshing.
So please,
don't look down on your youth.
Rather, rejoice in your youth.
Yes, become an example to the faithful ones.
In the following dramatization,
a young brother is doing just
what we've discussed.
He's becoming an example to faithful ones
and working hard at the assignments he has given.
But there's something he lacks,
a quality that would make him
even more valuable to Jehovah and to the congregation.
Before the meeting starts,
I need to get things ready.
I'm Ben.
And as a minister or servant,
I can do a lot to help the congregation.
And that night,
I was given another assignment.
Brother Richards asked if I could help him
update the territory maps
and organize our schedules for public witnessing.
I think the brothers know I can modernize all of this.
Brother Richards said to talk to brother Bello first.
He was the service overseer for years.
Great idea,
but I can already imagine the possibilities.
By that weekend,
I had almost finished.
I couldn't believe the outdated ways our records were kept.
This is going to be way better for the congregation.
And who knows what else could be improved?
I thought I had everything ready to show brother Richards.
He liked the new ideas.
But then he asked me,
what did brother Bello think?
Oh, brother Bello,
I forgot.
I should have asked him,
but at this point,
didn't really matter.
Brother Richards suggested we read about Elijah.
When the older Elijah's work was ending,
Elijah start close to his teacher.
Urged to stay behind,
Elijah repeatedly said,
as surely as Jehovah is living
and as you are living,
I will not leave you.
Until the moment Elijah left,
Elijah wanted to learn from him
like a son asking his father.
He wanted a double portion of Elijah's spirit
to continue the work he started.
And Elijah's first miracle
was the same as Elijah's last.
Dividing the Jordan
with Elijah's official garment.
Everything Elijah did
revealed his respect
for the experienced man Elijah.
I wasn't finished with my new assignment
after all.
There was a lot I needed to learn from brother Bello.
He really understood our preaching territory
and the people who lived here.
He liked my ideas.
But everything he showed me
made them even better.
I can do a lot to help the congregation.
And I pray that Jehovah lets me do even more
with the gifts he gave me
and with the wisdom of experienced men.
Ben had good ideas to improve the work he'd been assigned
but he also learned to respect the experience
of older brothers.
You too may have ideas
to benefit your assignment
whether in the congregation
a Bethel are on a construction project.
Like Ben,
seek the wisdom of experienced brothers and sisters
who did the assignment before you.
Find out why they did things a certain way.
What were the challenges they faced?
What direction and resources influenced their efforts?
How can their experience help you succeed?
You'll see the wisdom in what may at first
look like outdated methods.
Speak respectfully of their past work
and you'll reflect how Jehovah
treasures what they did for him.
Jehovah will intern,
bless the work of your hands.
What else will bring Jehovah's blessing?
He draws close to spiritually-minded people.
Young Christians all over the world
are experiencing the benefits
of maintaining a close relationship with God.
Each of you faces a unique set of circumstances
that make it difficult to be a spiritually-minded youth.
So we interviewed young witnesses
from different lands
to find out what they do
to keep growing spiritually.
Our relationship with Jehovah
can start when we're young.
For me, it was the example
that other set of putting Jehovah first
and the happiness that came as a result
as well as being in that sort of environment
that really helped me to one reach out
as well as be available for those opportunities.
And once we do give our life to Jehovah,
it's amazing to see the blessings
that he has in store for us.
But in order to build that relationship
we need to read God's Word.
We also need to pray to him.
The more you get to know him,
the more appealing things you learn about him
that makes you not want to lose him as your friend.
I always knew it was the truth
and that I want to serve Jehovah forever,
but I needed to reassure myself of certain aspects.
So I did some research projects with my parents
using their creator book
and some items from the Bible Teachbook.
After that, it only became more obvious
and I was certain that I wanted it
and that I was ready to get baptized.
To strengthen my relationship with Jehovah,
I read the Bible daily and I pray,
especially when there is no one around,
or it's quiet,
I talked to Jehovah with all my heart at that time.
Making myself available for spiritual opportunities
was a little bit difficult for me at first,
but I didn't give up.
After my baptism,
I became a ministerial servant
and I also served almost two years in Bethel,
and now I'm a regular pioneer in how to do
in a current speaking congregation.
I didn't know or speak the currents of our language,
so the local brothers helped me to learn
not only how to speak,
but also how to read.
Prayers are important to strengthen my relationship with Jehovah.
For me, it's like talking to a friend
and that's always helpful.
He's someone real to me
and I fully trust that he listens to me.
I support the elders by helping with the cleaning of the hall,
serving as an attendant,
handling microphones as well,
as helping the congregation spiritually.
When I share Jehovah's promises of eternal life
with others, I too am encouraged.
I am constantly remembering what Jehovah promises
and that motivates me to keep preaching.
There's a family in our congregation
who took me into their home
and served as my spiritual parent.
Through our family worship,
they helped me to progress spiritually.
The elderly ones in our congregation
have been helping me a lot.
First, they're good examples.
They also remind me to keep my eyes simple.
Despite their limited circumstances because of age,
they are determined to serve Jehovah God.
And that made me reflect on my situation.
I'm very young.
What prevents me from doing the things that they do?
Before I began Pioneering,
I used to selfish seven days a week.
But now I selfish four days a week,
so three days are available for Pioneering.
To be able to be available for spiritual opportunities,
I closely associate with my congregation.
I offer some older ones a ride to the meetings
or in the preaching work.
The reason I'm doing this
is because I want to give my youth
and energy to Jehovah God.
When I was at school,
I would conduct Bible studies with some of my classmates.
In time, they join me in serving Jehovah.
When I think about being with them
in the future of Paradise,
it gives me deep joy.
I have the privilege of studying with a deaf girl
who leaves two hours from where I live.
We have to walk all the way.
She is very happy with what she's learning
and her family is very supportive.
So knowing that Jehovah is helping her
and I have a part in it,
it's just priceless.
Exile Pioneering definitely helped me
because it was like a stepping stone
to regular pioneering.
The ministry definitely gives you the opportunity
to be able to work closely with Jehovah
and then by doing that,
you're reaffirming your faith
in what you already believe in
and then you're drawing closer to Jehovah in friendship.
Having JW.org and the broadcast
has definitely drawn me closer to our brothers and sisters,
but also Jehovah as well.
Just by nature, I feel like I'm a more of a timid person.
So going door to door can be a little scary,
but seeing other young ones in different parts of the world
that are enduring very difficult circumstances
and living conditions
and yet are still giving their best to Jehovah
is so encouraging for me
and it helps me to keep going on
and give Jehovah my best as well.
When I think personally about all the avenues of service
that we can have a hand in today,
there are so many that are exciting
whether it be pioneering in a foreign country,
serving where the need is great,
even serving at Bethel.
Unless we taste and see that Jehovah is good,
unless we put ourself out there
and are available to try that at least once,
we'll never know what it would be like
to really serve Jehovah and in doing that,
you will see how Jehovah does want the best life for us.
Those young ones and others like them
are developing the same spiritual qualities
that Paul saw in Timothy.
Read along with me and see how Paul described Timothy
at Philippians chapter two, starting at verse 20.
For I have no one else of a disposition like his
who will genuinely care for your concerns.
For all the others are seeking their own interests,
not those of Jesus Christ.
But you know the proof he gave of himself
that like a child with a father,
he slaved with me to advance the good news.
What is it that Paul saw in Timothy?
He saw his spiritual disposition or attitude.
He observed his genuine interest in his brothers
and sisters.
Timothy really desired to do God's will,
even though others were seeking their personal interests.
And Timothy earned his fellow worshipers respect
by working with older and more experienced Christians
like Paul in the ministry.
When you spiritually minded young ones
cultivate that beautiful Timothy like disposition
you make Jehovah's heart rejoice.
Of course, putting Kingdom interests first
and the needs of others ahead of our own
is not always easy.
We know there are real temptations
that can lead a young person away from Jehovah.
When others outside the congregation
recognize our abilities and talents,
we could begin to see great things for ourselves,
perhaps fame and recognition.
In this interview, Brother Eduardo Franco
relates how this desire caused him
to turn his back on Jehovah.
So, if the devil tempted Jesus,
don't you think he would try to tempt us
in order to jeopardize our relationship with God?
This is the best contract we've ever offered you.
Listen, I'll get you a plan
so you can attend your religious meetings during the week
just do the concert for us on the weekend.
People always ask me,
why did you leave a music world?
When I was still a boy,
I had dreams about becoming a famous singer.
Then I learned the truth,
but I never fully removed those dreams from my art.
And then I started listening to some bad influences
from my past.
And they got me hooked.
Then they rolled me into the recording studio.
The lyrics in the songs,
they really bothered my conscience.
So they offered me some liquor to loosen me up.
And then I started to feel more comfortable.
I started singing in the light what they were hearing.
And those songs ended up all over the radio stations.
It was as if Satan gave me a trophy
for abandoning Jehovah.
I became addicted to the applause.
Everything looks so beautiful.
But when you're on top,
when you're really at the top of Satan's world,
there's nothing beautiful there.
I was an actor.
And when the camera's turned on,
my face and my smile turned on too.
But when I would get back to the hotel,
it was a huge step down.
There was no applause.
Just that silence, that torment in my conscience.
So basically,
you had to find other distractions.
And one of those for me was a saw machine.
And of course, casinos don't just come with saw machines.
They also expose you to prostitution and alcohol.
My conscience would ask,
what are you doing here?
I remember those times on tour.
For my limousine, I'd see the brothers preaching.
And that would always touch my heart.
I would say to myself,
wow, Jehovah trained you to be doing that.
And look at what you're doing.
That really cut deep into my heart.
The road back to this road was really very hard.
Every time I was going to retire,
I'd say, this is it.
But then there would always be a bigger contract.
I had to make drastic decisions.
But finally, I said,
I don't care what they offer me.
I have to return to Jehovah.
I have to fulfill the vow I made to him when I was a young man.
When I dedicated my life to him.
So I prayed to Jehovah very earnestly and said,
Jehovah, I need to return to you.
I need to return to your loving arms,
sitting in his ripped and healed way from you.
He's helped me.
I remember that before I went into that first meeting,
I told Jehovah,
please give me a sign that you will take me back.
And there was an elderly sister there.
She gave me a great big hug and said,
welcome back son.
And she took my hand and set by me during the entire meeting.
I have betrayed Jehovah.
But I think,
I think the brothers,
because Jehovah put brothers at every turn.
They showed me with the Bible
how far I had straight from the path of the true God.
And everything you do has consequences.
I have asked Jehovah many times to forgive me
for all the things I have done.
And the brothers too,
all the people I offended by my actions.
All of those trophies I won,
every last one of them,
are their collecting dust.
But Jehovah has given me a different kind of trophy
in his organization,
helping others to dedicate their lives to him.
That's something no one can take away from you.
We don't all have to learn the hard way.
We have to keep enduring
and never turn our backs on Jehovah.
That's the worst mistake anyone could make.
We know that it's Jehovah who gives us our talents.
So we should use them on his service.
I have found happiness.
And that gives me a glow that's not just for the cameras.
Everyone who knows me can see it.
Brother Franco enjoys serving as both a regular pioneer
and congregation elder.
He feels privileged to shepherd young people
facing some of the same temptations he experienced.
He often relates a favorite scripture
from Proverbs chapter eight, verse 35.
Referring to wisdom,
that scripture says,
for the one finding me will find life
and he receives approval from Jehovah.
Brothers and sisters,
Jehovah does want us to find life.
And he wants us to be successful in our spiritual pursuits.
In this Bethel morning worship,
Brother Robert Lucioni discusses
how we can reach the potential that Jehovah knows we have.
Our text today is very encouraging
as it reminds us through this example of Amos,
that Jehovah notices the potential
of each one of his servants.
In fact, one of the comments from today's text states,
even though we may lack self confidence,
Jehovah can help us go beyond our perceived limits
and reach goals that we would not have imagined.
See, Jehovah knows our potential.
But you note from that statement,
this is also a reminder that we have to put forth effort
to reach our potential.
You see, if we're not careful,
we can sabotage our own efforts
to reach the potential that Jehovah sees in us.
How's that possible?
Well, let's look at three examples.
Number one, we can limit potential
by not throwing ourselves into what we are asked to do.
We may remember the account of Jehoash,
the King of Israel,
there in 2nd Kings chapter 13,
when he visited the prophet, Alisha, who was dying.
And you notice there in 2nd Kings chapter 13 and verse 17
that Alisha notes Jehoash's potential.
You notice he says there that you will strike down Syria
until you finish it off.
See, he noted the potential that he had to finish off Syria.
But then what happens?
Well, you remember that's where the King tells the...
Alisha tells the King to beat the arrows on the ground three times
or beat it on the ground and he only does it three times.
Notice what happens in verse 19.
At that, the man of the true God grew indignated him and said,
you should have struck the ground five or six times
then you would have struck down Syria until you finished it off.
But now you will strike down Syria only three times.
What happened?
Well, you see, by not throwing himself into what he was asked to do
showing zeal for his assignment,
he would only have limited success.
Jehoash limited his own potential.
Number two, we can limit our potential by focusing on our inadequacies
or our insecurities.
And a count that drives that home for me is that of Moses.
If you look in Exodus chapter three.
And in this account, we know it's not due to lack of zeal
or rather Moses' own insecurities
that nearly caused him to limit how he was used by Jehovah.
So we know in Exodus chapter three,
he received a very weighty assignment going to Pharaoh.
And notice what happens in verse 11, Exodus three,
11, it says, however, Moses said to the true God,
who am I, then I should go to Pharaoh and bring the Israelites
out of Egypt.
Now, that's a normal reaction.
We probably would have felt the same way.
Jehovah, are you sure you have the right person here?
And Jehovah says, no, I do.
I will be with you.
You look on verse 13,
says, but Moses said to the true God,
suppose I go to Israel and say to them,
the God of your forefathers has sent me to you.
And they say to me, what's his name?
What should I say to them?
Jehovah says no problem.
And he explains his name even tells him what his name means.
And how that power will be behind him.
Chapter four, in verse one.
However, Moses answered, but suppose they do not believe me.
And they do not listen to my voice.
For they'll say Jehovah did not appear to you.
No problem, Moses.
What's in your hand?
So he has the staff.
He shows some miracles that he can perform to show
that Jehovah is behind him.
Look at verse 10.
Moses now said to Jehovah, pardon me, Jehovah,
but I have never been a fluent speaker,
neither in the past nor since you spoken to your servant
where I am slow of speech and slow of tongue.
Okay, Moses, who created the mouth?
I'll speak for you.
Don't worry about it.
Look at verse 13.
But he says pardon me.
Jehovah, please send anyone whom you want to send.
And notice what says in verse 14.
Then Jehovah's anger blazed against Moses.
Fine, you know, I'm going to just send somebody else.
But thankfully Moses got the point.
He jumped into the assignment
which was used further by Jehovah.
But what happened here?
You notice Moses got caught up worrying about his inadequacies,
worrying about all the things that could go wrong.
Jehovah's saying, just get moving
and I will take care of the rest.
Jehovah saw that Moses had the potential
to carry out this assignment.
However, Moses was limiting himself.
At number three, we can limit our own potential
by becoming paralyzed by fear, fear of failure.
If you turn to the account in number chapter 13,
we notice that this is what happened to the 10 spies.
It's very interesting a phrase they use
when they came back from spying out the land,
number chapter 13 and look at verse 33.
It says, and there we saw the Nephilim,
the sons of Anach who were from the Nephilim.
And in comparison, we seem like grasshoppers
and notice both to us and to them.
You see, they ran into these sons of Anach who were giants,
men of extraordinary size,
who inhabited the mountainous region of Canaan
and it was understandable that these enemies
of Jehovah view the Israelites as puny,
grasshoppers, you can just squash them and no competition.
But you know the 10 spies saw themselves the same way.
And see, their view of themselves
in the situation paralyze them with fear
and cause them to demoralize the entire nation.
But now in contrast, we think of the account of David,
who has a young man also encountered a giant, Goliath.
And remember Goliath also saw David as a dispenseless little boy
and as a grasshopper, if you will.
But did David see himself the same way?
He says, you're coming to me with sword and spear.
I'm coming to you with the name of Jehovah.
You see, David did not allow himself to be paralyzed by fear.
He trusted in Jehovah and David lived up to the potential
that Jehovah saw in him.
So what's the lesson for us?
Well, the lesson is, is this illustrate,
these accounts illustrate that sometimes
we can be our own worst enemy at times.
See, lack of zeal, not throwing ourselves into the work
as in the case of Jehoash or our own insecurities,
as in the case of Moses or fear of failure,
as in the case of the 10 spies,
can cause us to limit the potential that Jehovah sees in us.
So what do we do?
Well, Jehovah's words to Gideon remind us
of what we can do.
And we invite you to turn to judges chapter six.
And you remember that for seven years,
the Midianites oppressed the nation of Israel.
And Jehovah's angel appears to Gideon
and says that he's going to deliver Israel
out of this wicked nation.
How could he possibly succeed?
We read the account and Gideon saw himself
as the least significant one of his father's house.
And he said his father's house
was the least significant family of the tribe of Manasseh,
but yet Jehovah saw the potential that Gideon had.
And what did Jehovah tell him to do?
Look at judges chapter six and verse 14.
It says, Jehovah faced him and said,
Go with the strength you have.
And you will save Israel out of Midian's hand.
Is it not I who sent you?
Interesting.
Go with the strength you have.
I know you cannot do it on your own strength.
Just get moving, throw everything you can into it.
And I, Jehovah will make up the difference.
See, that's what Jehovah is saying.
And that's exactly what happened.
So may we be determined to do the same.
We know that none of us accomplished Jehovah's work
on our own strength, on our own wisdom,
on our own abilities.
But when we receive an assignment,
we need to just start moving.
Do not let our inadequacies paralyze us.
Do not let fear of failure paralyze us.
Throw ourselves into the work.
Have a zeal for the work.
Go with the strength that you have.
Trust in Jehovah to make up the difference.
And you will live up to the potential
that Jehovah sees in you.
What excellent counsel for all of us,
and especially for young ones with a life of service
to God ahead of them.
That life with Jehovah can be everlasting.
That is our firm hope.
Until then, will you remain loyal?
Resist what the world offers you and reach your potential?
Imagine your life 100 years from now.
Will you regret the decades you gave to Jehovah?
Will anything you endured in Satan's system
slow you down from gaining life's prize?
Some of our brothers and sisters
can already look back that far and answer those questions.
Sister Alma Miller's family learned the truth
when she was 10 years old.
She was baptized in 1937 and is now 107 years old.
To her, just about everyone is a young person.
See the encouraging effect her loving
and faithful example has on young ones in her congregation.
People often tell me why I never talked to a person
that it was 107 years old.
And I tell them, you know what?
I never did either.
I would describe Alma as probably the most energetic,
100 plus year old lady that I've ever met.
She has pretty much the whole see a critic history
in her mind that she carries with her.
So you can ask her anything about the organization
and she can be able to tell you about it
because she's even met a lot of those people.
We read about it, but she lived it.
She's amazing.
Even though she's 107, she has an incredible memory.
Yeah, I go back kind of ways.
When I was very young, 10 years old,
we saw the full drama of creation.
And it was just packed with people.
They were even standing in the back.
We were so thrilled, we never forgot it.
And we realized that we found the truth.
My father left the church and he became one of Joe's witnesses.
And he were called Bible students at that time.
In the early days, we went to special conventions.
In some places, they had a big field where they put the cars
and they set up their tents.
They even named different streets.
It was just like a little city.
I was really thrilled to see brother brotherhood
speak as the conventions I attended.
I got married to Harold Miller in 1931.
That was when the depression was going on.
And times were very difficult.
Everything was scarce.
There were no jobs to be had.
The food was rationed.
People were really hungry.
And they moved in any little shack that they could.
Just to get by.
We didn't have anything.
And we couldn't drive the car.
So we used to have a little white horse.
The name was Lou.
And we went out with the thing with the horse and buggy.
She took us all over the place.
Far distances.
They would take this buggy and they would go 20, 30 miles.
One direction, 20, 30 miles, the other direction.
All the hard work that they put forth
has resulted in several congregations in the area.
We used to carry that magazine bag.
We were witnessing for a while there.
And so we put it around the horse's neck.
And so the horse was taking part in our witnessing.
People knew who was coming when they saw
that little white horse come into their yard.
Sometimes they just called.
And I remember wearing two coats.
Yeah, it's tiresome.
But we were young.
They would just go out regardless of rain or shine
or whatever was going on at the time.
And when they didn't have a car,
and to me that's amazing
because we get you so used to the conveniences
I guess you could call it, the coffee breaks the cars
and everything.
It's like, well, if Alma can do it,
surely I can do it.
One time Harold went out with this thing
and 50 years later he talked to the same man.
He said, 50 years ago, there was a young guy
who came through here writing on horseback
and telling people that he said,
I think it's Armageddon.
He said was coming soon.
And he remembered Harold writing horseback
50 years ago in that territory.
And he got there again.
And that happened a couple times more.
So it was a long life I would to see.
Alma is so zealous for the ministry.
She does not like not at homes.
She wants to talk to people.
Yeah, I enjoy the ministry.
I go out as much as I can in my old age.
We want to help the people to see the truth.
There's no greater joy.
I try to read the publications
so I have a reading machine.
The letters come right out of the screen
and I can study Alma lessons.
I would be lost without it.
It helps me to keep up in present truth.
What does dedication mean?
Sister Miller, please.
Dedication means.
Some young ones might be concerned about
what they should do with their life, what choices they should make.
Well, here we see an example of somebody
who served Jehovah for over 100 years.
And we see that she's happy and has no regrets
with their life.
And that's an example that we want to imitate.
For giving my life to Jehovah,
that's the best thing I could do for myself.
If I have any advice for young ones today,
I would say to keep on the truth.
They have a whole world before them
to serve Jehovah.
Something that endures forever.
Wasn't that encouraging?
With all the videos we use in our worship today,
it's also interesting that Sister Miller's
introduction to the truth was the photo drama of creation.
That was a photographic slide and motion picture production,
complete with color and sound,
which first showed in 1914.
You might enjoy learning more about that historic presentation
as a personal study project.
Sister Miller has experienced much in her 107 years.
She's endured economic depression, health problems,
and the loss of family and friends,
including her dear husband.
But as we saw,
Jehovah has blessed her with a spiritual family
in the congregation.
At the same time, those interviewed
with Sister Miller are enjoying a close friendship
with someone older.
Even very young ones are finding friends
among older brothers and sisters.
David, age nine, wrote this in his letter to the governing body.
I like to listen to older ones.
I just used to have a circle of friends,
but now I feel more comfortable
going and talking to older ones.
It's no surprise, then,
that in the latest become Jehovah's friend video,
so feel learns that you're never too young or too old
to be someone's friend.
Sister Elsa, did you paint these?
I did.
They're amazing.
How long have you been drawing?
As long as I can remember,
it's my way of being able to share all the stories of my life.
Could you show me?
Yes, of course.
I remember a time when I was young in East Germany.
We weren't allowed to do our work as Jehovah's Witnesses.
We were under ban.
I helped in copying our watchtower magazines by hand
and then hiding them in food.
Did?
Yes.
We'd then send the food to our brothers who were in prison.
I was also asked to help in distributing
Bible literature to our congregations
as an underground messenger.
Wow.
Time passed, and then things started getting better in Berlin.
Shortly after, I immigrated to New York,
and I met my darling husband.
That was a great story.
Thank you.
But I'm sure you have stories.
What do you like to draw?
Well, actually here.
This was the time when Caleb and I went to the park
and he met a little girl there.
I'm glad I reached out that day.
Lasting friends can be of any age when they love Jehovah.
Elsa and Sophia already share much in common
and are likely to become good friends.
We're pleased to announce that this new
become Jehovah's friend lesson is available
on video on demand under the children category.
You parents and family heads are doing all you can
to teach your children from infancy to love Jehovah
and to become his friend.
As they grow, you also teach them how to study
and pray on their own.
You know they need these spiritual skills.
Young ones, remember that your personal study time
is when you can ask Jehovah for help
with what you are personally experiencing.
And that study time has other good effects.
As this music video tells us,
study makes you strong.
With that root, study makes you strong.
Study does make us strong.
As depicted in the music video,
the Bible reading and study habits
that the young sister started with her family
became her own personal habits.
When a challenging situation or opportunity
to give a witness came along,
she already knew how to research
what she needed from the scriptures.
Our prayer is that all of you young brothers and sisters
grow spiritually strong in the same way
and become examples to faithful ones everywhere.
That brings us to our video postcard
from faithful brothers and sisters.
This month, we visit beautiful Austria in central Europe.
Brother C. T. Russell first visited Austria in 1891.
He returned in 1911 to plant further seeds
of kingdom truth in the capital city Vienna.
Today, there are more than 21,000 active publishers
among the eight million who live in Austria.
One of the 301 congregations
is the German language congregation in Uden.
They preach in a territory of Alpine mountains and valleys.
Some farms are as high in elevation
as 1,700 meters or more than 5,500 feet.
But difficult terrain does not slow the kingdom message.
The 48 publishers there recently reported
conducting 51 Bible studies.
We thank them for showing us another encouraging example
of the brotherly love that unites
God's people worldwide.
They send us their Christian love and greetings
and we send our love and return
along with prayers for Jehovah's favor.
We thank you for joining us
and we look forward to an encouraging program next month.
From Brooklyn, New York, this is J. W. Broadcasting.